
                         BROOKS'S READERS

                            FIRST YEAR


                                BY
                         STRATTON D BROOKS
           SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS


                           [Illustration]


                    NEW YORK - CINCINNATI - CHICAGO
                         AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY


                          Copyright, 1906, by
                         AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY.
                         Copyright, 1907, Tokyo.
                                ------




                       BROOKS'S READERS, FIRST YEAR.


The sole purpose of this book is to help the children to learn to read.
While it may ultimately lead to the acquisition of knowledge concerning
many subjects, its present aim is only to make reading easy. The
lessons are, therefore, on subjects familiar to every child. The words
are such as children habitually use in conversation; they are
introduced gradually, and as a rule are repeated many times. Since
proficiency in reading is best attained by much practice, care has been
taken to present as large an amount as possible of interesting matter
which the child can readily master. Every line is for the pupil to
read. The stories are so constructed as to encourage and secure
naturalness of expression without the intervention of rules or formal
drills. The gradation both in thought and in expression is easy and
natural.

Although the learning of words by much repetition and familiarity with
their forms is an essential feature of this book, its foundation is
nevertheless phonetic. Yet, for the sake of leaving it perfectly
adaptable to any method of teaching, the phonetic basis has not been
emphasized. The systematic introduction of words which may serve as
key-words for the acquisition of others containing similar phonetic
elements has been carefully observed, and it is believed that this is
the natural method untrammeled by any artificial classification.

As further aids toward making the child's first reading lessons easy,
the sentences are short. There are no broken lines in the first hundred
pages. Indentations help the young reader to keep the place. There are
no interfering illustrations in the text. Each story is complete
without turning a leaf.

Grateful acknowledgments are extended to Miss Frances Lilian Taylor of
Galesburg, Illinois, to Mr. W. J. Button of Chicago, and to Miss
Matilda Mitchell, primary teacher, Phillips Brooks School, Boston, for
valuable suggestions and assistance.




SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS


As stated on the preceding page, the foundation of this work is
phonetic. The author believes that children may profitably learn many
words without reference to their phonetic composition, and that among
these certain key-words should be selected from which the elementary
sounds of the language may be developed. These elements will give the
pupils the power of acquiring new words. For example, observe the
following key-words and the sounds developed from them:--

  [**Transcriber's Note:
    To represent the diacritical marks used in the text, square brackets
    have been used to enclose a letter and a symbol. The symbol precedes
    the letter to represent a symbol above the letter, and follows the
    letter to represent a mark below the letter.
      [)x] - a letter with a breve above it,
      [x+] - a letter with an up tack (upside down "T") under it,
      [=x] - a letter with a macron above it,
      [~x] - a letter with a tilde above it,
      [.x] - a letter with a dot above it,
      [x:] - a letter with a diaresis under it.

    The "$" signs are used to represent bold typeface.]


    Page  5, $flag$; teach f, l, [)a], g.
    Page  7, $fan$;  teach n.
    Page  8, $can$;  teach c.
    Page 10, $has$;  teach h, [s+].
    Page 10, $get$;  teach [)e], t.
    Page 12, $cap$;  teach p.
    Page 13, $drum$; teach d, r, [)u].
    Page 14, $am$;   teach m.
    Page 15, $not$;  teach [)o].
    Page 15, $big$;  teach b, [)i].
    Page 16, $see$;  teach s, [=e].
    Page 17, $ball$; teach [a:].
    Page 17, $play$; teach [=a].
    Page 18, $jump$; teach j.
    Page 19, $bird$; teach [~i].
    Page 19, $fly$;  teach [=y] = [=i].
    Page 21, $wall$; teach w.
    Page 24, $good$; teach oo.
    Page 25, $with$; teach th.
    Page 31, $some$; teach [.o].


Observe the great number of easy and common words that may be developed
from the sounds thus learned from the first ten key-words named above.
The list includes _an_, _as_, _ran_, _had_, _pan_, _man_, _tan_, _let_,
_met_, _pet_, _bet_, _men_, _pen_, _fig_, _did_, _bit_, _little_,
_not_, _lot_, _got_, _hot_, _log_, and a great many more. Similar
key-words emphasizing the remaining sounds should be selected as the
work proceeds. Teachers preferring to introduce the sounds less
rapidly, may teach these first words as words and select others later
in the book to serve as key-words. The blackboard should be in constant
use, and the pupils' ingenuity in forming new words and new sentences
should be tested at every recitation. The few exercises in script given
at the beginning of the book are suggestive of the manner in which much
additional drill in reading may be presented on the blackboard. The
diacritical marks should not be taught to the children.

  [**Transcriber's Note:
   The { } are used to denote handwritten script.]

[Illustration]

    a flag

    {a flag}
    a flag

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    I have a flag

    {I have a flag}

[Illustration]

    I have a fan.
    I see the fan.
        See the fan.
        See the fan I have.

    {I have a fan.}
    {I see the fan.}
    {See the fan I have.}

[Illustration]

    See the flag.
    I have the fan.
    I can see the flag.
        I have a dog.
        Can the dog have the flag?
        The dog can see the flag.
    Can I see the dog?
    Can I see a fan?
    Can the dog see the fan?

     can fan flag dog

    I see a flag.
    I see a fan.
    I see a dog.
        The dog can see.
        The dog can have the flag.
    I can have the fan.
    I can see the dog.

    {I see a flag.}
    {I see a fan.}
    {I see a dog.}
        {The dog can see.}
        {The dog can have the flag.}
    {I can have the flag.}
    {I can see the dog.}

[Illustration]

     has get boy

    See! The dog has the flag.
    The boy has the dog.
    Can the boy get the flag?
        I can get the flag.

    {I have the dog.}
    {I can get the flag.}

[Illustration]

     girl and

    See the girl and the fan.

[Illustration]

    cap {cap} hat {hat}

    The boy has a cap.
    The girl has a hat.
        I see the girl and the hat.
        I see the boy and the cap.
    I have a hat and a cap.
    Can the dog have the cap?
    The boy has a cap and a flag.

[Illustration]

     run {run} drum {drum}

    See the dog run.
        The boy has a drum.
        The dog has a hat.
    Can the boy get the hat?
    Can the dog get the drum?
        The girl can run.
        The girl can get the drum.

[Illustration]

     am my little

    I am a boy.
    I am a little boy.
    See my drum and my cap.

     not big is

    I am a girl.
    I am not a big girl.
    I am a little girl.
      I have a big fan.
      See the fan I have.

[Illustration]

    The girl is not a big girl.
    The fan is not a little fan.
    A little girl can not have a drum.
      The girl has a cap and a fan.
      The boy and the girl can run.

     cat you me to

    I see you.
    I see you, little cat.
      Can you not see me?
      Run, run to me, little cat.
    The big dog can not get you.

[Illustration]

    I can run to you, little girl.
    Can you run to me?
      I am not a big cat.
      I am a little cat.
    I see you and I run to you.

     ball play catch it

    The ball! Get the ball!
    Can the girl play ball?
    Can the boy catch the ball?

[Illustration]

    Run, little boy, and catch it.
    See, I can play ball.
      I have it. I can catch it.
    You can not get it, little boy.
      You can not catch a ball.
    The little girl and I can play ball.

     jump hop like

    See the big boy and the little boy.
    Can the little boy jump?

[Illustration]

    Jump, jump, jump!
    Hop, hop, hop!
    Can you hop to me, little boy?
        I can not hop to you.
        I can jump to you.
        I like to run and jump.
    I see you can jump, little boy.
    You can jump like a big boy.

     bird fly

    I see a little bird.
    The bird can fly.
    Fly, little bird, fly. I like to see you fly.
        Can you fly, little girl?
        Can you fly like me?
        I like to fly. I am a bird.

[Illustration]

    The dog and the cat can play.
    The boy can hop and jump.
    The little girl can not fly like the bird.

[Illustration]

     in tree

    I am a bird. I am in a tree.
    Can you see me, little boy?

[Illustration]

     nest by wall

    The bird has a nest.
    The nest is in the tree.
    The tree is by the wall.
    Can you see the bird in the nest?
        I can see the tree by the wall.
        I can see the nest in the tree.
        The bird is not in the nest.
    Fly to the nest, little bird.
    Fly to the nest in the tree.

     do sing let

    I have a bird.
    My bird can sing to me.
    Do you see it in the tree?
    Let it fly and sing.
        I can sing to you, little boy.
        Can you sing to me?
        Sing to me, fly to me.
        I am in the tree.
        The tree is by the wall.
    I can not fly like you, little bird.
    You can not play like me.
    Do you like to play?
    You have a nest and can sing.
        You can not get me, little boy.
        The cat can not catch me.
        I am in my nest in the tree.

[Illustration]

     one two bed dogs

    I have two little dogs.
    I have one cat. Do you see it?
      My dogs like to run and play.
      My dogs have a little bed.
    Do you see the dogs in the bed?
    I like my dogs and my cat.

[Illustration]

     milk drink good for

    Run to me, little dogs.
    Do you like milk?
      I have a little milk for you.
      See the milk. Do you like it?
    Can you drink it? Is it good?
    I like to drink milk.
      I like to see you drink it.
      Milk is good for you.

     doll pretty with here

    The little girl has a doll.
    Is it not a pretty doll?

[Illustration]

    My pretty doll, I like to play with you.
    You can not run with the dogs.
      You can not sing with the bird.
      You can play here with me.
    I have a pretty bed for you.
    Here it is. Here is your bed.
      I like to play with my pretty doll.

[Illustration]

     Grace our sister she

    The girl with the doll is Grace.
    She is our little sister.
    She is a good girl.
    She likes to play with the doll.
    She likes to sing to it.
    She sings about the bird in the tree.

[Illustration]

     will song

    Will you sing to me, Grace?
    Will you sing me a pretty song?
      The bird will sing to you, sister.
          Little bird, pretty bird,
            Little bird in the tree,
          Sing a song, little bird,
            Sing to sister and me.

[Illustration]

     this rabbit how

    See this pretty rabbit, Grace.
    I like this little rabbit.
    See how it can jump.
      Rabbit, run to me. Jump, rabbit.
      Let me see how you can jump.
      I like to play with you.
      I like to see you hop and jump.
    Do you like milk, little rabbit?
    Can you drink like my dogs?
    Do you have a pretty bed like the doll?
    My dogs will not catch you, rabbit.

[Illustration]

     Bennie brother many

    This is Bennie.
    Bennie is my brother.
    See the little rabbits with Bennie.
    How many rabbits do you see?
    See how the rabbits jump and play.

     about gray

    Here is a song I sing about Bennie.

    Our Bennie Boy has a little rabbit,
    Our Bennie Boy has a little rabbit,
    Our Bennie Boy has a little rabbit,
          One little rabbit gray.
    One little, two little, three little rabbits,
    Four little, five little, six little rabbits,
    Seven little, eight little, nine little rabbits,
          Ten little rabbits gray.

[Illustration]

    Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four,
    three, two, one.

[Illustration]

     look at top spin

    Look, look, Grace! Look, sister!
    Look at my big top.
    See how I can spin it.
    Can you spin it, Grace?
        I can not spin a top, Bennie.
        I like to play with my doll.
    Boys like to spin tops.
    Girls do not like to spin tops.

[Illustration]

     come book give mother tell

    Come here, Bennie, my little boy.
    Do you see this pretty book?
    I will give it to a good little boy.
        Will you give it to me, mother?
        Am I a good boy?
        I like a pretty book.
    I will tell sister Grace about it.
    Grace will like to look at it.

[Illustration]

     picture some of

    Come here, Grace, and see this book.
    It is a pretty picture book.
    Come and look at the pictures with me.
    I will tell you about some of the pictures.
      How good mother is!
      How good she is to give you this book!
    See this picture of a boy and a girl.

[Illustration]

    See! Here is a picture of a dog.
    It looks like one of my dogs.

[Illustration]

    Here is a picture of a rabbit.
    It is a big gray rabbit.

[Illustration]

    Here is a picture of some boys.
    See the boys run and play.

[Illustration]

      Here is a picture of a little girl.
      She has a doll and a fan.
    She looks like you, Grace.

[Illustration]

     baby child love

    This is our baby sister.
    Is she not a pretty child?
        I love our baby.
        Have you a baby sister?

[Illustration]

     walk talk far your

    Can our baby walk?
      She can walk a little.
      She can not walk far.
      See how she can walk.
    Come, baby, come to your sister.
    See how far you can walk.
      The good child can walk to me.
      She can not talk to me.

     well call soon too

    Look, mother, look! Call the baby.
    See how well she can walk.
    See how far she can walk.
        Soon she can run and play.
        She will soon talk, too.
        She likes to look at pictures.
        I will let her look at my book.
    Come, baby! See this pretty book!
    I will let you see the pictures.
        Here is a picture of a flag.
        Here is a girl with a fan.
        Here is a dog with a hat.
        Call the dog, baby. Call the dog.
    The baby calls. The dog will not come.
        Our baby sister will soon talk.
        She will talk to mother and Grace.

     ground found round eggs

    Bennie, come here, come here.
    Look here on the ground.
        What have you found, Grace?
    I have found a nest. It has eggs in it.
    See the eggs. How round they are!

[Illustration]

     any oh no her we

    How many birds are in this nest?
      Let me see the pretty nest.
      I do not see any birds in it.
      I see some eggs in the nest.
    How many do you see?
    Is the nest for me?
      Oh, no, no, no.

[Illustration]

    Is the nest for you?
      Oh, no, no, no.
    The bird made the nest on the ground.
    The nest is not for me.
    The nest is not for you.
    The nest is for the good little bird.
    We found the nest on the ground.
    She loves her nest and her round eggs.
    We will not get any of her eggs.

[Illustration]

     kittens on what

    Here is a picture of some cats.
    I see one big cat and two kittens.
    The mother cat is on some books.
    She calls the kittens.
        Come, kittens, come.
        See what is here.
        See what I have found.
    What can the mother cat see?

     under they now

    The mother cat is on the books.
    What can she see under the books?
        Now the kittens come and look.
        What can they see?
        They look on the books.
        They look under the books.
        They look in one book.
        What do they see now?
    Have you a little kitten?
    What can it do?
        My kitten plays with a ball.
        I give it milk to drink.
    Our brother Bennie has ten gray rabbits.
    Has he any little kittens?
        I can not tell you now.
        I will call Bennie. He can tell.

[Illustration]

     morning bright sun sky

    What a bright morning this is!
    It is a good morning for play.
      Look at the sun in the sky.
      Do you like to see the sun?
      How bright it is this morning!

     kite high so as down

    Look at my kite, brother.
    See how high it can fly.
        Oh, it is a good kite.
        It looks like a big bird.
    It can fly as high as a bird.
    I will run and it will fly high.
    See it! See it now!
    See how high in the sky it is!
        How bright it looks in the sky!
        Will it fly to the sun?
    Oh, no, no! It can not fly so high.
    The sun is too high.
    No bird can fly to the sun.
        Now, let it come down.
        Do not let it come down in the tree.
    Oh, how I like my pretty kite!

[Illustration]

     cradle may take make name

    I see a pretty cradle.
    The cradle is high in the tree.
        Tell me about this little cradle.
        Tell me what is in the cradle.
    I see some birds in the cradle.
    One, two, three baby birds.
        What is your name, little bird?
    The bird will not tell you.
        What can you make, little bird?
    I can make a nest.
    My nest is high in the tree.
    It is a cradle for my little birds.
    Can you make a cradle, little boy?
        Oh, no, I can not make a cradle.
        I can not make a nest.
        May I take your nest?
        May I take it for our baby?
        She will like to play with it.
    No, no, little boy.
    The nest is not for your baby.
    It is for my three little birds.

[Illustration]

     Don care all time

    Our baby is in her cradle.
    The cradle is not like the bird's cradle.
    Our big dog is by the cradle.
    The dog's name is Don.
        Can Don take care of the baby?
    He takes care of her all the time.
    What a good dog he is!

[Illustration]

     go stay must side

    No, Don, you can not go with me.
    You must stay here with mother.
    You must take care of the baby.
    You must stay by her cradle.
        Take the baby with you, Grace.
        She can walk by your side.
        You may take the dog, too.

[Illustration]

     brook water sit

    Now, baby, come with me.
    You and Don may walk with me.
    We will walk down by the brook.
        I like to see the pretty brook.
        We will sit here and look at it.
    How the water runs and runs!
    It runs all the time.

     fall into from home

    Sit here by my side, baby.
    See all the water in the brook.
    See how the water runs and runs.
    You must not fall into it.
        Water is good to drink.
        We do not drink it from the brook.
        The birds drink it.
        Don drinks it.
    How do birds drink?
    How do dogs drink?
        Soon we must go home.
        Mother will call and we must go.
        We can not stay here all the time.
    The birds sing in the trees by the brook.
    The rabbits come to see the water.
    Don must not catch the rabbits.

[Illustration]

     yes sir school Marian

    Good morning, little girl.
    What is your name?
        Good morning, sir.
        My name is Marian.
    Do you go to school?
        Yes, sir, I go with my little brother.
        Bennie is my brother, too.

     read father gave write

    What do you do at school, Marian?
    Can you read? Can you write?
        Yes, sir, I can read a little.
        Here is my book.
        My father gave it to me.
        I can write, too.
    Let me see how you can write.

    {My name is Marian.}

    You can write well, little girl.
    Does your dog go to school with you?
        Oh, no, no, sir!
        Dogs do not care for books.
        They do not read. They do not write.
    The school is for boys and girls.
    It is not for dogs.

[Illustration]

     Rose wagon horse fine that

    What little girl is this?
        Her name is Rose.
        She is in her little wagon.
    It is a pretty wagon.
    See what a fine big horse she has.
        Oh, that is not a horse.
        That is a big dog.
    Well, he looks a little like a horse.

     Jo ho draw are where

    The dog's name is Jo.
    He can draw the wagon for Rose.
        What a fine horse he is!
        Where will he go with Rose?
    He will take her to school.

        Now, here we are at school.
        Ho! ho, Jo!
        You are a good dog, Jo.
        You must not go in with me.
    All the girls say, Good morning, Rose.
        Good morning, girls.
    Where will your horse go now?
    Will he go into school with you?
        Oh, no, he must go home.
        Dogs do not go to school.

[Illustration]

     ride Ned old hold know

    See my pretty wagon, Bennie.
    You may have a ride in it.
    I will play that I am a horse.
    Where did you get this wagon, Ned?
    My father gave it to me this morning.
    Come, get into it. I will be your horse.
    I will draw the wagon with you in it.
        You are a good old horse, Ned.
        I like to ride in your wagon.
        You must not run away. Ho! ho!
    You must hold your horse, Bennie.
    You must not let him run.
        I know you will not run away, Ned.
        You will give me a good ride.
        Here we are at the old tree. Ho!
    Now we will go home.
    You may draw the wagon, Bennie.
    I will get into it and ride.
    How do you like to be a horse?
        I like to play that I am a horse.

[Illustration]

     going but day away

    Our little baby boy is going away.
    Do you know where he is going?
        Is he going to school, mother?
        May he go with me in my wagon?
    Some day he may go with you.
    But he is not going to school now.

     Shut Eye Town sleep say

    Can you tell where the baby is going?
        Oh, I know, I know.
        He is going to sleep.
    He is going to Shut Eye Town.
    Will you go with him, Marian?
        Where is Shut Eye Town, mother?
        Is it far, far away?
    It is where baby is going.
    Baby is going to sleep.
    Now shut your eyes, baby.
    Shut your bright eyes and go to sleep.
        Now he is in Shut Eye Town.
        He will come home in the morning.
        He will say, Good morning, mother.
    He will say, Here I am, Marian.
    I have come home from Shut Eye Town.

[Illustration]

     ring train cars bell

    Ring! ring! ring!
    Do you see our train?
    We are on the cars.
        Where is this train going?
        Is it going to Shut Eye Town?
    Oh, no! We do not go to that town.
    Ring the bell, sister. Here we go.




REVIEW


    Come here, my good child.
    Tell me your name. How old are you?
        Do you go to school?
        What do you do at school?
        Have you any books?
        Do you like to read?
    Have you a flag at your school?
    Can you play ball with Bennie?
        What is your doll's name?
        How many dogs have you?
    What can birds do?
    Do you like to look at pictures?
        Where is Shut Eye Town?
        Can you ride to that town?
    Have you a baby at home?
    How many little girls do you know?

[Illustration]

     rain cloud house black think

    See how black that cloud is.
    I think it is going to rain.
        Yes, I see the rain now.
        We must run to the house.
    Do you like the rain, Bennie?
      No, I do not like the rain now.
      I can not fly my kite in the rain.

     wind blow hear loud roar

    Do you hear the wind, Bennie?
    Hear it blow! Hear it roar!
        Yes, I hear it. How loud it blows!
        It blows and blows.
        It roars and roars.
    We can hear the wind roar.
    But we can not see it.
    It blows all about the house.
    It blows the clouds and it blows the trees.
        It roars on the house top.
        It roars in the rain.
        I do not like to hear the wind roar.
    It blows my kite away.
    It blows the birds about the trees.
        Wind, do not blow all day.
        Let the bright sun shine.

     flowers grow show snow find blue red white yellow lily

    Ring, ring! Sing, sing!
    Here come the flowers to town.
        I have some blue flowers.
        I have a red, red rose.
    How pretty they are!
    Do you know where the flowers grow?
        Oh, yes, yes! We know.
        Come with us and we will show you.
    Show me where the roses grow.
    Show me where to find blue flowers.
        Go down by the brook.
        Go and look, look, look.
        You will find a white lily.
        It is as white as snow.

[Illustration]

    We found yellow flowers on the ground.
    We found some roses on the wall.
    You may find as many. Go and look.
        Ring, ring! Sing, sing!
        Here come the flowers to town.

[Illustration]

     taking shall

    Where are you going, Marian?
    Are you going far?
        I am taking a walk.
        Will you not come with me?
    Oh, yes, Marian. I like to walk.
        Where shall we go?
    Let us look for some flowers.
    I know where they grow.

     them best there cold which

    I see some roses now.
    Shall I run and get them?
    Some roses are white, some are red.
    I like this red rose best.
        Now we will go down by the brook.
        We will find white flowers there.
    I found a white lily there one day.
    It was white as milk.
    It was white as snow.
        Some flowers grow under the snow.
        How cold they must be!
    Sing, sing, lily bells ring!
    Here are yellow, red, and blue flowers.
    Which do you like best?
        I like the blue flowers best.
        I will give them to you.

[Illustration]

     chickens wings can't don't

    Look, look! Look there, brother!
    See the pretty little birds,
      We do not call them birds, Marian.
      They are little chickens.
    See them run about on the ground.
    Have they no wings? Can't they fly?
      Chickens have wings, but they don't fly.

     us chick something count

    Let us call the little chickens to us.
    Chick, chick, chick, chick!
    Come here, little chickens, come to me.
    I have something for you.
    Come and get it.
        See all the chickens run.
        They know that you have something.
        They think you will give it to them.
    Some of my chickens are white.
    Some are black, and some are yellow.
    Which do you like best?
        I can not tell. I like them all.
        How many chickens have you?
    I can't tell how many.
    They run about so I can't count them.
    Can you count them, Marian?

[Illustration]

     falling shine drive out

    Oh, Ned, the rain is not falling now.
    I think we may go and play.
        The clouds are going away.
        I think the sun will shine soon.
        Let us go out and see.
    Yes, there is the sun in the blue sky.
        It will drive the rain clouds away.
    Now I can fly my kite.

     sight light night then

    See how the sun shines.
    It drives the black clouds far away.
    What a pretty sight it is!
        It shines on the trees and flowers.
        It shines for the birds and the brook.
        How bright it is!
        How high it is!
        It is high in the sky.
        My kite can not fly so high.
    The sun gives us light. It shines all day.
    By and by it will go down.
    Then day will go and night will come.
    We can not see the sun at night.
        Where shall we go then, Ned?
    We shall go home to mother.
        I think we shall go to Shut Eye Town.

    owl

        says

              who

[Illustration]

    What is this?
    Do you know?
        It is an owl.
        The owl is a bird.
        See its big eyes.
    It sits high up in the old tree.
    It sits there all day.
    It likes to fly at night.
        It can not see in the bright light.
        Do you know what the owl says?
        It says, Who! who! who!




REVIEW


    Where do pretty flowers grow?
    What is as white as snow?
    Where can the baby go?
    Who says "Ho! ho!" to our dog Jo?
    Tell me something that you know.
      What can little kittens do?
      What bird is it that says Who! who?
      Can one boy play as well as two?
    Where can red roses be found?
    Does a bird make its nest on the ground?
    Name something bright and round.
    Who is going to Shut Eye Town?
    How many chickens can you count?
      What bird can fly about at night?
      What shines bright and gives us light?
    Tell me what you do at school.

     why said was went did him his guess shining fish

    One day Ned went down to the brook.
    No one went with him.
    The sky was blue. No cloud was in sight.
    The sun was shining bright.
    It was a fine day.
        Why did Ned go to the brook?
        Did he go to get some flowers?
    I think not. I will tell you all about it.
    His mother said to him:
    "Where are you going, Ned?"
        "I am going to the brook," said Ned.
    "What are you going to do there?"
        "Oh, I am going to catch some fish.
        I will catch some for you, mother."
    "Oh, Ned, do not catch all the fish."

[Illustration]

    Well, Ned, how many fish did you catch?
        Guess how many, Grace.
    Let me think. Did you catch ten?
        Oh, no, not so many as that.
    Did you catch five fish for mother?
        Oh, no, not so many as that.
    Well, then, did you catch one fish for sister?
        Oh, no, not so many as that.

[Illustration]

     room chair box table door

    Oh, Marian, let us play house.
    Here we are at home.
    What a fine, big room we have!
      This is the door, and this is the table.
      The big box will do for a table.
    The little box will do for a chair.
    We must have two chairs, Grace.
    I will go and get mother's chair.
      The round box is the baby's cradle.
      But the baby can not sit in it.
      It is too little.
    Here are the chairs.
    Come, now, sit down by the table.
    The baby may sit here by me.
      What is that, Grace?
      I hear the door bell.
      I think some one is at the door.
    Come in! Come in! Good morning, Ned.
    Come in and see our fine house.

[Illustration]

     bee honey busy

    Oh, mother, do come here!
    Here is a big fly.
    It is in this yellow flower.
        That is not a fly. It is a bee.
        It gets honey from the flower.
    Oh, I like honey. Don't you, mother?
    See how busy the bee is.
        It is busy all the day.




A BUSY TIME


    We are all busy this morning.
    The boys are playing.
    The girls are reading.
        The flowers are growing.
        The rabbits are jumping.
        The birds are singing.
    I am thinking of something.
    Father is going to town.
    Mother is counting her chickens.
        Brother is ringing the bell.
        Sister is walking to school.
        Baby is sleeping at home.
    The sun is shining.
    The horses are running.
    Ned is making a wagon for me.
    We are all having a good time.

[Illustration]

     bought brought thought robin

    What do you think I have, Grace?
    I have brought you something.
    Can you guess what it is?
      I do not know what it is, Marian.
      Let me think. I will guess three times.
      Is it a red rose?
      Is it a yellow kitten?
      Is it something you have bought for me?

[Illustration]

    Yes, Grace, I bought it in town for you.
    I think you will like it.
    But you must guess what it is.
        Is it a book? Is it a picture?
    Yes, Grace, it is a picture.
    See! I bought it for you.
    Don't you think it is pretty?
        Oh, I thought it was a picture.
        It is a picture of a bird and a nest.
    Yes, it is a picture of a robin.
    The robin is by its nest.
        The nest is high in a big tree.
        There are four eggs in the nest.
    The eggs are blue.
    They are as blue as the sky.
        This is a pretty picture, Marian.
        I am glad you brought it to me.

[Illustration]

     blocks build windows made

    Robert has some pretty blocks.
    His father brought them from town.
      He can build a house with the blocks.
      The house will have doors and windows.
    The little girl is Robert's sister.
    "You may build a train of cars," he says.
      Do you see the train she made?

[Illustration]

     new clock tick-tock up

    We have a new clock at our house.
    Father bought it for Grace and me.
    It is by the window in my room.
        Do you know what a clock does?
    It tells the time of day. It talks to us.
        What does the pretty clock say?
    It says, "Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock."
    In the morning it says, "Get up, get up."
    At night it says, "Bed time, bed time."

     cow stand eats grass sets




THE COW


    Here is our old cow in the brook.
    Why does she stand in the water?
    She drinks the water from the brook.
        The cow gives milk for us.
        She eats the grass by the brook.
        She walks under the trees.
    She sees many red and yellow flowers.
    She hears the wind roar in the tree tops.
    She hears the robin sing.
        Come here, old cow.
        Why do you stand in the brook?
        Why do you walk in the grass?
    The cow will not tell me.
    She looks at me. She does not talk.

[Illustration]

    When the sun sets the cows come home.
    Why do they come home at night?
    I think Ned will drive them home.

     umbrella sat stood ran leaf

[Illustration]




THE RAIN


    See, Ned.
    See the rain.
    It rains and rains.
    Who has an umbrella?
    "I have," said the robin;
    And he sat under a leaf.
    "I have," said the bee;
    And it went into a flower.
    "I have," said the little yellow chicken;
    And it ran under its mother's wing.
    "I have," said the cow;
    And she stood under a tree.
    "Who cares for an umbrella," said Ned;
    And he ran in the rain.

     o'clock every everything

    Well, Ned, where are you going now?
    Are you going to school?
      Yes, sir, I go to school at nine o'clock.
      I go to school every day.
    What do you do at school?
    Tell me all the things you do.
        We read and we write.
        We look at the pretty pictures.
        We sing about the flowers.
    Is that all you do, Ned?
        Oh, no, no. It is not all.
        I can't tell you everything we do.
        Every day we play a little.
        Every day we read something new.
        At three o'clock we go home.

[Illustration]

     again fast sometimes always still when




THE BROOK


    Here we are at the brook again.
    See how fast the water runs.
    Stand still and hear the brook sing.
        I hear it, I hear it.
        What does it say when it sings?
    It says: I am a little brook.
    I run, and I sing as I run.
    I give water to the trees and the grass.
    I give water to the pretty white lily.
    The cows come to see me.
    I give them water to drink.
    The robins sing to me every morning.
    The flowers love me.
      Why do you run all the time, little brook?
      Where are you going this fine day?
    I am running to the sea.
    I run, and still I am always here.
      Boys and girls like to play by the brook.
      They find many pretty things.
      Can you tell what they find?
    I think they sometimes find a flower.
    Sometimes they catch a fish in the brook.
      Good-by, little brook!
      We will see you again.

[Illustration]

     sand full put live




MY BOX OF SAND


    I have a box full of sand.
    My father made the box.
    My big brother put the sand in it.
        I can build a house of sand.
        I put windows and doors in it.
        It is not a good house to live in.

[Illustration]

     boat sail ship carry




THE BOAT


    Will you make me a boat, father?
    Make a little boat with a sail.
      Where will you sail your boat, Robert?
    I will sail it on the brook, father.
    I will play it is a big, big ship.
      But I will not let it sail far.
      The brook shall not carry it away.

[Illustration]

     place sweet glad ever humble




OUR HOME


    Good morning, Bennie.
    Is Marian at home?
        Yes, Rose, I think she is in the house.
        Will you go in?
    What a pretty home you have!
    What is Marian doing this morning?
        She is reading in her new book.
        She will be glad to see you.
    I love my home.
    There is no place like it.
    Do you know why I think so?
        Father and mother live here.
        Sister and brother live here.
        Our baby lives here.
        I love them all.
        They all love me.
    There is a pretty song about home.
    We sing it at school.
    Did you ever hear it?
        Oh, yes. Shall I sing it to you?
          "Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
          Be it ever so humble,
          There is no place like home."
    Now, is not that a pretty song?
    Every child loves to sing it.

     wood branches tall small




THE TREES


    See all the trees, Robert.
    Can you count them?
        No, Ned, there are so many.
        I can not count them all.
    I like to walk through the woods.
    I like to see the tall trees.
        Some of these trees are large.
        Some are small.
    What are trees good for, Robert?
    Tell me all about them.
        They are good for wood.
        We build houses of wood.
    Oh, yes; I know.
    Tables and chairs are made of wood.

[Illustration]

    The baby's cradle is made of wood.
    My blocks are made of wood.
        So is my little wagon.
        So is the boat my father made for me.
    The birds like the tall trees.
    They build nests in the branches.
        Many flowers grow in the woods.
        Rabbits live and play there.

[Illustration]

     Jack sailor sea waves storm




THE SAILOR BOY


    Here is a sailor boy. His name is Jack.
    Jack's home is by the sea.
         He loves the sea.
         He likes to play in the sand.
    Jack likes to hear the waves.
    They sing him to sleep at night.
    Sometimes there is a storm at sea.
    Then the wind and the waves roar.
        Jack likes to hear them roar.
        He likes to see the big waves.
    Sometimes Jack sails out with his father.
    They go out in a boat to catch fish.
        The wind blows the white sails.
        The boat sails far away.
    At night they come home.
    How many fish did you catch, Jack?
    How far did you go? What did you see?
        Is not Jack a fine sailor boy?

[Illustration]




REVIEW


    Where do you live, Grace?
       I live at home, sir.
       I live with mother and father.
    Where do the robins live?
       They live in the old tree in the woods.
       The tree is their home.
    Where do fishes live?
       Some live in the brook, some in the sea.
    What has wings but can not fly?
       I think it must be a little chicken.
    What can fly but has no wings?
       I know, I know. It is Ned's kite.
    What runs all day but has no feet?
       It must be the clock in our room.
    I think it is the brook.
       Oh, no, it is a train of cars.

     Bopeep sheep lambs back lost

[Illustration]




LITTLE BOPEEP


    My name is Bopeep.
    Do you see all my sheep and lambs?
    I take care of them.
    I find grass and water for them.
        One day I lost my pretty sheep.
        I could not find them any where.
    How did Bopeep find her sheep?
    I will tell you how she found them.
        She looked here, she looked there.
        She went down to the brook.
        No sheep were there.
        She called and called.
        She stood still to listen.
        She heard not a sheep.
    Bopeep sat down on the grass.
    The birds sang to her.
    The brook sang to the birds.
    Then little Bopeep went to sleep.
        The sheep and lambs came running.
        They came out of the woods.
    "Here we are, little Bopeep," they said.
    "We have come back to you.
    We have come to live with you again."
    Little Bopeep looked up.
    She saw her sheep and lambs.
    All had come back to her.
    How glad she was to see them!
        They drank the water from the brook.
        They ate the green grass.
        The lambs played under the trees.
    "Oh, my pretty lambs!" said little Bopeep.

    can       could
    find      found
    look      looked
    play      played
    call      called
    stand     stood
    listen    listened
    hear      heard
    sit       sat
    sing      sang
    come      came
    see       saw
    drink     drank
    eat       ate

     winter summer sleds bring were




THE SNOW


One morning in winter Grace heard her mother calling her.

"Come here, Grace! Come here, and look out of the window."

Grace ran to the window and looked out. What do you think she saw?

The snow was falling.

The ground was white with snow.

"Oh, mother," said Grace, "how pretty it is! Everything is white with
snow.

Where does the snow come from?"

"It falls from the clouds," said her mother. "In summer the clouds bring
rain. In winter they bring snow."

[Illustration]

At school the boys and girls were glad.

"It snows! It snows!" they said.

"Now we shall have a fine time.

We can make snowballs.

We can ride on our sleds.

We can play in the snow."

     playthings happy silk masts gold




MY SHIP AT SEA


    I will play I have a ship at sea.
    My ship is sailing.
    It is sailing on the blue sea.
         Now it is far, far away.
         Some day it will come home again.
         It will come home to baby and me.
    Many pretty things are in my ship.
    It is full of bright playthings.
    They are all for baby and me.
         Oh, my pretty ship!
         All its sails are of silk.
         Its masts are of yellow gold.
         It sails all day and all night.
    When it comes back, how happy I shall be.
    But now it is sailing on the blue sea.

[Illustration]

    I have a ship a-sailing,
     A-sailing on the sea,
    And it is full of pretty things
     For baby and for me.

    There is candy in the cabin,
     And apples in the hold.
    The sails are made of silk,
     And the masts are made of gold.

     earth Christmas angels heaven

    All the bells on earth shall ring
          On Christmas day,
          On Christmas day;
    All the bells on earth shall ring
    On Christmas day in the morning.

    All the angels in heaven shall sing
          On Christmas day,
          On Christmas day;
    All the angels in heaven shall sing
    On Christmas day in the morning.

    And every one on earth shall sing
          On Christmas day,
          On Christmas day;
    And every one on earth shall sing
    On Christmas day in the morning.

[Illustration]




CHRISTMAS BELLS


     be over spring mind frozen bare sunny South




THE BIRDS IN WINTER


One morning Marian looked out of her window. The snow was falling.

"How cold the wind blows," she said.

"The trees are all frozen and bare. The brook is frozen over.

The pretty robin's nest is full of snow. There are no birds in the
woods. Where do the birds go when winter comes?"

"They fly to the sunny South, where the snow does not come," said
Robert.

"They will come back to us in the spring. They will sing glad songs and
build new nests."

[Illustration]

Out in the snow a little bird was hopping.

"See, Robert, see!" said Marian. "That little bird did not fly to the
sunny South.

"How cold it must be! Its little feet must be frozen."

"That is a snowbird," said Robert. "It likes the snow. It does not mind
the cold. It stays here all winter."

     story heard horn corn meadow




LITTLE BOY BLUE


"Oh, Ned," said Rose one day, "what do you think I have? It is a new
story book. Father gave it to me this morning. I have been reading in
it."

"It is a pretty book," said Ned. "Are there any good stories in it?"

"Oh, yes. One story is about a little boy who went to sleep in the
meadow.

I don't know what his name was, but they called him Little Boy Blue.

He took care of the sheep and the cows. He had a horn to blow.

The sheep and the cows would come when they heard the horn."

[Illustration]

"Here is the story, now. And here is the picture of Little Boy Blue.

    "Little Boy Blue,
      Come, blow your horn!
    The sheep are in the meadow,
      The cows are in the corn.

Where, where can the little boy be? Oh, here he is, sleeping, don't you
see?"

     farm farmer helps been




DRIVING THE COWS


Robert lives on a farm.

His father is a farmer.

Robert helps his father. He helps take care of the chickens and the
lambs.

Sometimes he drives the cows to the meadow. Sometimes he drives them
home at night.

"Where are the cows, Robert?"

"I think they are in the meadow."

"Will you not drive them home? It is time to milk them."

"Yes, father, I will bring them home. I like to drive them.

I will take the dog with me.

[Illustration]

Come, Don. You know how to drive the cows. You may come with me.

There they are by the meadow brook.

See, they are drinking from the brook.

Drive them, Don! Drive them home.

There they go! What a fine thing it is to live on a farm!"

     Frank seen never would city street river tools




THE BOX OF TOOLS


Frank lives in the city. He has never seen a farm. He has never seen a
brook.

He has never heard the robins singing in the tree tops.

A river runs by the city. Sometimes Frank goes down to the river to see
the boats and ships.

Sometimes he plays in the street by his home. The street is not a good
place to play.

Frank has many playthings, and he is as happy as any farmer boy. He
would not be happy on a farm.

[Illustration]

One day Frank's father gave him a box of tools.

Frank made many things with his tools.

He made a kite and a little wagon.

He made a stand for his mother. He made a cradle for his sister's doll.

[Illustration]

Spring is the time for flowers.

Summer is the time for corn to grow

Autumn is the time for apples to fall.

Winter is the time for wind and snow.
     seasons autumn gone warm green




SPRING


Winter has gone. Spring has come.

There is no snow on the ground now. The days are warm and bright. The
sun is high in the sky.

Soon the ground will be green with grass. There are wild flowers in the
woods now.

All the birds have come back from the South.

The robin is here. He is building a nest in the old tree. Soon there
will be some little blue eggs in the nest.

The old owl did not go South. But he is glad that spring has come.

[Illustration]

     goat

     fox

     buzz




THE FIVE GOATS


Five goats were in a field.

There they found green grass to eat, and good water to drink. At night
the farmer's boy and his little sister came to drive them home.

One night the goats wanted to stay in the field.

The little girl ran after them. But she could not drive them out.

"Now I will try," said the boy.

So the boy ran after the goats. But they would not go out for him.

Just then a dog came by.

"Let me try," said the dog. "I have more legs than a boy. I can run
faster."

He ran after the goats. He barked and barked. But the goats would not go
out of the field.

Soon a fox came to see what the dog was doing. "Let me try," he said.
"I know more than a dog, and I can run fast."

The fox ran after the goats. But he could not drive them out of the
field.

"Let me try," said a horse that was looking on. "I am big and strong."

But the goats would not go out for the horse.

A busy bee came into the field.

"Buzz! buzz!" it said. "I think I can drive them out. Let me try."

"What can you do? You are too little to drive goats," said the boy.

"You are smaller than I am," said the little girl.

"You can not bark," said the dog.

"You don't know much," said the fox. "You can't run round the field on
four feet," said the horse.

"Buzz, buzz, buzz!" said the bee. "We will see; we will see;" and away
it flew.

It flew by the big goat's ear.

"Buzz, buzz, buzz!" it said.

The goat looked up. "What is that?" he said; and he ran out of the
field.

The little goat looked up.

"If you go out, I will go out," he said; and out he ran.

"So will I. So will I. So will I," said the three white goats; and all
ran out of the field.

Then the boy and his sister drove the goats home. "If the bee had not
helped us, what could we have done?" they said.

     butter cream bread churn dish pans fresh turns




MAKING BUTTER


Do you know how I make butter?

I will tell you.

Every day the cows give us fresh milk. Ned brings the milk to the house.

I have some large tin pans. At night I put the fresh milk in these pans.

In the morning I find yellow cream on the top of the milk.

Then I take off the cream and put it in my churn.

I churn and churn till the cream turns to butter. I take the butter out.

I leave the buttermilk in the churn.

[Illustration]

Here is one of my butter balls.

It is on a little dish.

Bennie and Marian like butter.

They like bread and milk, too.

All boys and girls eat bread.

Do you like bread and butter?




 MARY AND THE BROOK


    "Stop, stop, pretty brook!"
      Said Mary one day,
    To a bright, happy brook
      That was running away.

    "You run on so fast!
      I wish you would stay;
    My boat and my flowers
      You will carry away.

    "But I will run after;
      Mother says that I may;
    For I would know where
      You are running away."

    So Mary ran on;
      But I have heard say,
    That she never could find
      Where the brook ran away.

[Illustration]




REVIEW


    Do you live in the city?
    Have you ever seen a farm?
    What does a farmer do?
    Where do the birds go in winter?
    When does the sun shine?
    When does the snow fall?
    What is as white as snow?
    Why would you like to be a sailor?
    Why do you love your home?
    Where do the fishes live?
    What can Bennie build with sand?
    How does Robert's mother make butter?
    What do boys and girls do at school?
    What does the clock tell Marian?
    What things are made of wood?
    What do you do on Christmas day?




WORD LIST


Most of these words are also included in the word lists at the heads of
the various Lessons. Some regularly formed derivatives are omitted.

  a bout´
  a gain´
  all
  al´ways
  am
  an
  and
  an´gels
  an´y
  are
  as
  at
  ate
  au´tumn
  a way´

  ba´by
  back
  ball
  bare
  bark
  be
  bed
  bee
  been
  bell
  Ben´nie
  best
  big
  bird
  black
  blocks
  blow
  blue
  boat
  book
  Bo peep´
  bought
  bow
  box
  boy
  branch´es
  bread
  bright
  bring
  brook
  broth´er
  brought
  build
  bus´y
  but
  but´ter
  but´ter milk
  buzz
  by

  call
  call´ing
  came
  can
  can't
  cap
  care
  car´ry
  cars
  cat
  catch
  chair
  chick
  chick´ens
  child
  chil´dren
  Christ´mas
  churn
  cit´y
  clock
  clouds
  cold
  came
  com´ing
  corn
  could
  count
  cow
  cra´dle
  cream

  day
  did
  dish
  do
  does
  dog
  doll
  Don
  done
  don't
  door
  down
  drank
  draw
  drink
  drive
  drove
  drum

  ear
  earth
  eat
  eggs
  eight
  ev´er
  ev´er y
  ev´er y-thing
  eye

  fall
  fall´ing
  fan
  far
  farm
  farm´er
  fast
  fa´ther
  feet
  field
  find
  fine
  fish
  five
  flag
  flow´er
  fly
  for
  found
  four
  fox
  Frank
  fresh
  from
  fro´zen
  full
  fun

  gave
  get
  girl
  give
  glad
  go
  goat
  go´ing
  gold
  gone
  good
  good-by´
  Grace
  grass
  gray
  green
  ground
  grow
  guess

  hap´py
  has
  hat
  have
  he
  hear
  heard
  heav´en
  helps
  her
  here
  high
  him
  his
  ho
  hold
  home
  hon´ey
  hop
  horn
  horse
  house
  how
  hum´ble

  I
  in
  in´to
  is
  it

  Jack
  Jo
  jump
  just

  kite
  kit´ten
  know

  lambs
  large
  leaf
  legs
  let
  light
  like
  lil´y
  lis´ten
  lit´tle
  live
  look
  lost
  loud
  lore

  made
  make
  man´y
  Mar´i an
  Ma´ry
  mast
  may
  me
  mead´ow
  milk
  mind
  more
  morn´ing
  moth´er
  must
  my

  name
  Ned
  nest
  nev´er
  new
  night
  nine
  no
  not
  now

  o'clock´
  of
  oh
  old
  on
  one
  our
  out
  o´ver
  owl

  pan
  pic´ture
  place
  play
  play´things
  pret´ty
  put

  rab´bit
  rain
  ran
  read
  red
  ride
  ring
  riv´er
  roar
  Rob´ert
  rob´in
  room
  rose
  round
  run

  said
  sail
  sail´or
  sand
  sang
  sat
  saw
  say
  says
  school
  sea
  seasons
  see
  seen
  set
  sev´en
  shall
  she
  sheep
  shine
  ship
  show
  shut
  side
  sight
  silk
  sing
  sir
  sis´ter
  sit
  six
  sky
  sled
  sleep
  small
  snow
  so
  some
  some´thing
  some´times
  song
  soon
  south
  spin
  spring
  stand
  stay
  still
  stood
  storm
  sto´ry
  street
  sum´mer
  sun
  sun´ny
  sweet

  ta´ble
  take
  tak´ing
  talk
  tall
  tell
  ten
  that
  the
  their
  them
  then
  there
  they
  thing
  think
  this
  thought
  three
  tick-tock
  time
  tin
  to
  too
  tools
  top
  town
  train
  tree
  try
  turns
  two

  um brel´la
  un´der
  up
  us

  wag´on
  walk
  wall
  warm
  was
  wa´ter
  waves
  we
  well
  went
  were
  what
  when
  where
  which
  white
  who
  why
  will
  wind
  win´dow
  wings
  win´ter
  with
  wood
  would
  write

  yel´low
  yes
  you
  your





End of Project Gutenberg's Brooks's Readers: First Year, by Stratton D. Brooks

